Building Hermes
---------------

1. Uncompress and un-tar the supplied file in a directory below which
you want Hermes to be installed, as follows:

       installdir=$PWD    # path below which hermes will be installed
       gunzip -c hermes.tgz | tar xvf -

This will create the subdirectory hermes, in which the Hermes
directory tree has been populated. Change directories to the hermes
directory.

2. Customize the setup file $installdir/hermes/bin/hermesenv.sh as
appropriate for your installation. In particular you need to set the
environment variables HERMES_ROOT (to $installdir/hermes), IDLROOT,
MPI_ROOT, and MPI_LIB. If your system type is not one of the systems
specified in the case statement, or you want to use a different
compiler option than those provided by the case statement, you will
need to modify it appropriately. Finally, there is a large
if-elif-...-fi structure that is designed to support building for
multiple architecture/compiler combinations from the same shared
directory. If appropriate, modify or add to this. A few of Hermes'
libraries and utilities provide support for parallel execution using
the Message-Passing Interface Standard (MPI). If you plan on using any
of these features, the MPI libraries must be installed on your
machine. If not installed on you machine, the source code for MPI is
open-source and readily available.

Before building or executing any Hermes libraries or utilities, the
user needs to "source" this setup file. For Bourne, Korn, or Bash
shells, this is accomplished by entering the command

     . $HERMES_ROOT/bin/hermesenv.sh".

Finally, note that a hermesenv.csh file is provided for csh users.


3. If you have added any new values of the HERMES_SYS_TYPE environment
variable to the setup script, you will need to add a new "makopts"
file for it. All such files are located in $HERMES_ROOT/etc, and the
existing files provide a template for creating a new one. These files
provide make macros that make uses to tailor its operation to the
architecture/compiler environment.

MPI ONLY: For a general parallel installation, the make macro MPI_SYS
is set (or not set) in the $HERMES_ROOT/etc/makeopts.xxx file
appropriate to each system. Its presence indicates that the MPI
include files are implicitly available to the compiler and shouldn't
appear as dependencies in the dependency files used by the make
system. It should also be noted that the values of MPI_ROOT and
MPI_LIB defined in $HERMES_ROOT/bin/hermesenv.[c]sh can be overridden
(for the make system only) by defining them in the appropriate
makeopts.xxx file. If possible, in the makeopts.xxx file for your
system, use the MPI compiler wrappers (mpif77, mpicc, mpicxx) for the
values of the compiler macros and set MPI_SYS to 1. This will allow
the wrappers to choose the appropriate locations for libraries and
include files.

4. Before building any of the libraries or utilities, Hermes'
maketools must first be built. This is accomplished by first setting
your environment (see 2 above), changing the working directory to
$HERMES_ROOT/maketools, and typing the command "make". Note that
Hermes uses the GNU version of make. If the default version of make is
not GNU make, then substitute the appropriate command to run it. GNU
make is free software and readily available for all common operating
systems (see http://www.gnu.org/software/make).

5. To build all of the libraries with a single command, simply change
to the $HERMES_ROOT/lib directory and typing "make". To build all of
the Hermes tools, type "make tools" from the same directory. Several
of Hermes libraries have "test" subdirectories. These contain code
that is designed to exercise machine/compiler-dependent portions of
the library. It is a good idea to build and run these tests,
particularly when porting to new machines and/or compilers. This is
accomplished by running "make" in the appropriate test subdirectory,
then following the instructions found in the README file.

Note that the libraries can also be build individually by changing to
the appropriate subdirectory of $HERMES_ROOT/lib and typing "make." In
addition, each library supports several build targets and options,
some of which are specific to the individual library. Typing "make
help" lists all the available targets and options available from the
current directory.
